1) concrete goals for your project, and methods of testing and verification you will apply to determine whether those goals were met

We have built a network file system (NFS) on an AWS instance using the systems of samba and CIFS, only allowing access to the file from client servers on the same subnet as the server. We had several goals when designing this system, such as actually installing the required software onto the server and client AWS instances, and then having them be maintained by a puppet module. The way we tested this was by using the functions of the installed software to test whether they worked, including "service samba status", and then pushing updates to samba through puppet and seeing if they were installed.
We wanted to make sure that the shared folders located on the master were accessible from other machines. This was tested in how the samba client located on the server "basilisk2" is able to mount a drive from the samba server using the command "sudo mount -a" and then entering the password of the user.
Finally, it was necessary to us that the shared file server be secure so that no unauthorized access to the shared folders was possible. Testing this simply required us to try to use the commands "sudo mount -a" or "smbclient //10.0.3.20/[Shared-folder] -U [User-account]", then enter the wrong password. Since it denied us access or entry into the system, the security test was a success.

The best way to see if the current implementation of our project is working is by trying to use an NFS mount to share some web content that is served by your Apache installation. The way to do this would be to create a user account on the server (refer to user_docs.txt for information on how to do this) if it does not exist already. After this step, or if an account is already active, one can go on to the next step of using the command "sudo mount -a" and entering the user's password. This will mount the drive website onto the NFS client instance. Then adding to or editing the content of these files will then alter the website accordingly. This can be viewed at 'ec2-52-27-180-204.us-west-2.compute.amazonaws.com'.

This server can also not be accessed outside of its subdomain. This is testable by trying to access it via a home computer and trying to mount a shared folder using the command "smb://52.27.180.204/website". This mount never completes, and thus it is impossible to connect via a normal ip address, and the folders are only mountable from inside the server's subdomain.
